look at that isn't that magnificent now
obviously this isn't a wild Harris Hawk
he'd never get one of those to fly into
a fist like this and this is a for
canary bird and this is the absolute
classic Hawk shape in fact as she came
in to land on my fist what you would
have seen is pretty much exactly the
last thing a small mammal would see
before meeting its end the way she
stopped throwing her wings back
spreading her tail stops her almost
instantly from flight it probably 30
maybe even 40 miles an hour but the most
remarkable thing about this bird of prey
is that while most birds of prey tend to
be solitary tend to stick to themselves
Harris Hawks are very social animals and
in fact they hunt with their friends
like all good teams each player has got
a job to do and we put a little
experiment to show you this deadly squad
in action
[Music]
so we have 1 2 3 Harris Hawks all primed
and ready now let's see if we can show
you them hunting so I've got this
leather lure which they're trained to
chase and I'm gonna hide it in here
they're still gonna see it they have
after all got eyes like a hawk we'll see
what happens I'm gonna get as far away
as humanly possible ok bird once the
front runner flushing the prey from
cover setting up the kill for the next
two
[Music]
bad in they go together all three birds
have hit that ler in the space of just a
couple of seconds try and imagine if you
will rabbit being hit by just one burn
of death but three like that wouldn't
stand a chance
now they should if things go to plan
share the food a bit come on guys leave
some fear friends
[Music]
scientists believe that when Harris
Hawks worked together as a group they're
more than twice as effective at catching
prey than a bird of prey on their own so
for that reason alone the Harris Hawk
has to make it onto the deadly 60
you